\documentclass{article}[10 pt]

\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsthm}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{multicol}
\usepackage{mathrsfs}
\usepackage{graphicx}

\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\setlength{\textwidth}{6in}
\setlength{\unitlength}{1in}

\linespread{1.5}

\newcommand{\ds}{\displaystyle}
\newcommand{\al}{\aleph_0}
\newcommand{\vs}{\vspace{0.1in}}

\title{The Bitcoin Bridge}

\date{March 15, 2016}

\author{Mitch Lowry}

\begin{document}

\maketitle

\textbf{1 Introduction}

\vs


\vs

Since the introduction of the Bitcoin by Satoshi Nakamoto on January $3$,
$2009$, an unforeseen number of cryptocurrencies have been created, many of
which are based heavily on Bitcoin. This strange math based phenomenon of
the cryptocurrency piques much debate and interest among economists. Not
surprisingly, most economic research on cryptocurrencies is devoted to the
most highly publicized and valued of cryptocurrencies, bitcoin; however,
there is a relatively new currency that could significantly impact the
cryptocurrency market and international business. This currency is Ripple’s
XRP. The XRP’s most important role is to act as a bridge currency within
Ripple’s free, open source payment protocol. This payment protocol allows
parties from any part of the globe to perform transactions between any fiat
currencies, commodities, cryptocurrencies, or other stores of value in as
little as five seconds with little to no transaction fees.

\vs

There are many large questions to be tackled about the impact of Ripple on
the global economy; however, the objective of this study is to tackle a
somewhat modest one. I would like to determine whether or not usage of
Ripple has affected the price of the bitcoin. The rational of this
possibility stems from my belief that the Ripple payment protocol could have
a positive influence on the demand of bitcoins by making transactions with
bitcoins safer. Specific details about this will be covered in the
conceptual framework section. The main task of the paper will be creating an
appropriate vector autoregressive model (VAR) model for the price of
bitcoin.

\vs

\textbf{2 Literature Review}

\vs

\textbf{2.1 Bitcoin Pricing}

\vs

Upon reviewing the literature, I came across a literature review published
in May of $2014$ by Ciaian et al. ($2014$) upon which I will be piggybacking
my literature review but adding a little more detail. In the previous
literature there are quite a few factors that have been identified as
important for determining the price of BitCoin: ($i$) interacting between
BitCoin demand and supply (Buchholz et al. $2012$; Ciaian et al $2014$);
($ii$) global financial indicators (van Wijk $2013$); and ($iii$)
attractiveness for investors (Kristoufek $2013$; MacDonell $2014$; Ciaian et
al $2014$).

\vs

Buchholz et al. ($2012$) use VAR modeling to determine the price of
bitcoins. The study concludes that the interaction between bitcoin supply
and demand is a major determinant of bitcoin prices. These results are
consistent with the results of Ciaian et al. ($2014$) who find that the one
day lag of bitcoin prices is US dollars, the four day lag of total bitcoins
that have been mined, and the one and two day lags of bitcoin days
destroyed. Kristoufek ($2013$), however, explains that the price formation
of bitcoin cannot be explained by standard economic theories because
supply-demand fundamentals are absent from bitcoin markets. He says this for
the following reasons: ($i$), bitcoin exists independently of any financial
regulatory systems, so the supply of bitcoin is detached from what is going
on in the economy, and ($ii$) there are no interest rates for
cryptocurrencies, so profits can only be made on price changes.

\vs

Van Wijk ($2013$) stresses that since bitcoin is a fiat currency, the only
reason bitcoin has value is because investors and other buying agents
believe that bitcoins will retain their value. He claims that general
economic indicators are good indicators of whether or not bitcoin will
retain its value, so he performs Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) on with such
indicators and then applies an error correction model to get long term
relationships because performing OLS on differenced variables results in
loss of long run effects in the outcome of the analysis. Van Wijk found that
in the short run the only variable that had a significant influence on the
value of bitcoin was the closing value of the Dow Jones index (positive
influence) but that there were insignificant variables, namely the closing
value of the Nikkei $225$ (negative influence), the euro-dollar exchange
rate (positive influence) and the yen-dollar exchange rate (positive
influence), with large coefficients that may explain some of the variation
in bitcoin. Whether this is a legitimate claim or he is just trying to make
himself look better is up for debate. In the long run he found that the
following variables were important for determining the price of bitcoin:
($i$) Dow Jones index (positive influence), ($ii$) the euro-dollar exchange
rate (negative influence), and ($iii$) the euro-dollar exchange rate
(negative influence). Dimitrova ($2005$) claims that there could be a
negative relationship between bitcoin prices and financial indicators.
Dimitrova ($2005$) says that if stock prices fall, then foreign investors
may decrease their stock with BitCoin; however, what Dimitrova does not
account for here is that a decline in the price of some stock may also be a
signal to purchase that stock if one does not currently hold any of it (or
even if they do). Ciaian et al. ($2014$) and MacDonell ($2014$) find no such
relationships between bitcoin prices and macroeconomic indicators.

\vs

MacDonell ($2014$) used log-periodic power law modeling in an attempt to
make a model that can predict crashes in bitcoin prices. The motivation from
this clearly stems from the major bitcoin bubble of $2013$. Of the variables
MacDonell tested, only the CBOE Volatility Index was found to be
significant, which implies that only investor behavior matters for
determining the prices of bitcoins. This is likely due to the fact that
MacDonell used news mentions as a proxy for consumer participation. This
does not seem like a good enough proxy, and so the regression would not
really parallel consumer participation. Both Kristoufek ($2013$) and Ciaian
($2014$) found that indicators of the bitcoin supply and demand were
significant in determining the price of bitcoin in the short run and in the
long run. They used a somewhat more reasonable proxy for attractiveness for
investors, the volume of daily BitCoin views on Wikipedia. According to
Kristoufek ($2013$) this proxy is a good indicator of how interested
investors are in bitcoin. 

\vs

\textbf{2.2 Bitcoin Attractiveness to Investors}

\vs

The attractiveness of bitcoin to investors and to vendors depends on both
the risk and return of buying and performing transactions with bitcoins.
Vendors accepting bitcoin may also be worried about the costs of converting
bitcoins into other currencies because the economies that they function in
do not operate with bitcoins. One important risk to consider is the security
of Bitcoin exchanges. Since bitcoin is a digital currency there is a very
real threat of cyber-attacks. In fact, Moore and Christin ($2013$) found
that of the $40$ Bitcoin exchanges that they examined $18$ closed down
because of cyber-attacks in which users information and or bitcoins were
stolen. Another thing to consider for investors is the cost of finding out
what is worth investing in. Many studies (Gervais, Kaniel, and Mingelgrin
$2001$; Grullon, Kanatas, and Weston $2004$; and Barber and Odean $2008$)
have found that the decisions of new investors may be distorted by the
effect of media attention. This is the rational for the use of news mentions
by MacDonell ($2014$).

\vs

\textbf{3 Theory}

\vs

As previously discussed, studies have found the following things to be
important for determining the price of BitCoin: ($i$) interaction between
BitCoin demand and supply; ($ii$) global financial indicators; and ($iii$)
attractiveness for investors.

\vs

\textbf{3.1 Supply-demand Theory}

\vs

Since BitCoin has no intrinsic value and is a fiat currency, demand for
BitCoins is primarily determined by its expected value in the future, i.e.
people do not want to accept or exchange for BitCoins if they believe the
price of BitCoin is going to be lower when they plan on using said BitCoins.
The supply of BitCoins is determined by the total number of BitCoins in
circulation. BitCoins are generated by BitCoin “miners” who, either
individually or in groups, complete the computationally difficult problem of
finding and adding blocks to the BitCoin block chain, BitCoin’s public
ledger of past transactions. When miners find a block and update the public
ledger, new BitCoins are generated and given to the miners as compensation.
The difficulty of finding blocks is adjusted every 2016 blocks based on the
total computational power going into mining. This adjustment results in a
steady rate of mining; a new block is added to the ledger every ten minutes.
The reward that miners receive from finding these blocks is halved every
$210000$, which means over two year periods there is a relatively linear
increase in the number of BitCoins. This decrease in the reward also means
that there is a predefined number of BitCoins in the long-run. This will be
$21$ million BitCoins in $2140$. The process of adding blocks to the ledger
is a way to insure an accurate public ledger, and thus is related to the
security of the bitcoin system (Nakamoto $2008$).

\vs

In the spirit of Ciaian et al. ($2014$) we will also use a modified version
of Barro’s ($1979$) model to discuss the theory of the interaction between
money supply and demand. Firstly, we note that in perfect markets there is
equilibrium between money supply and money demand. The bitcoin model is
certainly not a perfect market, but there may be a similar relationship here
as with other fiat currencies. For Barro’s model we have the following
equation for the supply of bitcoins:

\vs

($1$) \begin{center} $M^{S} = P^{B}B$. \end{center}

\vs

In the above equation $M^{S}$ denotes the supply of bitcoins, $P^{B}$
denotes the price of bitcoins in US dollars, and $B$ denotes the total
number of bitcoins. Based on the Fischer equation money demand $M^{D}$ is
dependent on the general price level of goods, $P$, the size of the bitcoin
economy, $Y$, and the velocity of bitcoins, $V$. The assumed equation is as
follows:

\vs

($2$) \begin{center} $M^{D} = \dfrac{PY}{V}$. \end{center}

\vs

Using the equations one can derive the following price relationship:

($3$) \begin{center} $P^{B} = \dfrac{PY}{VB}$. \end{center}

\vs

This equation implies the following things about the price of bitcoin: ($i$)
bitcoin prices decrease as the velocity and total stock of bitcoins
increases, and ($ii$) bitcoin prices increase as the general price level and
the size of the bitcoin economy increases. Thus, we can construct some model
of bitcoin prices by the following:

\vs

($4$) \begin{center} $p_{t}^{B} = \beta_{0} + \beta{1}p_t + \beta_{2}y_t +
    \beta_{3}v_t + \beta_{4}b_t + \epsilon_t$ \end{center}

where each lower case variable is a some measure its corresponding uppercase
variable and $\epsilon_t$ is the error term at time $t$.

\vs

\textbf{3.2 Attractiveness to Investors and Vendors and Macroeconomic
Indicators}

\vs

Those things that should increase the security of using bitcoin and reduce
transaction costs or potential transaction costs should increase
attractiveness of bitcoins to both investors and vendors. Theoretically,
this should increase the demand of bitcoins, thereby, increasing the price
of bitcoins by a loose interpretation of equation ($3$); however, the
previous literature review demonstrates that this is not necessarily true.
Besides what we have already discussed, one of the largest risks of
investing in and accepting bitcoins as compensation is the high price
volatility that bitcoin is plagued with. This volatility may actually
simulate investment, especially when the volatility of the stock market is
especially low due to the allure of the possibility of large returns;
however, there is obviously good reason to shy from investing in things with
such volatility. This high volatility also imposes additional risk on
vendors because vendors who do accept bitcoins may receive less money than
they received due to prices changing they are able to convert their bitcoins
into whatever currency they would like.

\vs

As previously discussed, a new block is added to the Bitcoin chain block
every ten minutes. This means that the average time that one has to wait in
order to convert their bitcoins into another currency is five minutes. Due
to the high price volatility of bitcoin the vendor may receive less money
than they had hoped, will incur transaction fees, and perhaps a little
stress or actual costs from training employees and dealing in bitcoins. In
enters Ripple. Ripple is a cryptographically secure internet protocol that
is a peer-to-peer payment system. When using Ripple, XRP acts as a bridge
currency so that one Ripple user can pay in the currency of their choice and
the other Ripple user can receive said payment in the currency of their
choice. This is done with phenomenally low transaction fees. The fees are
set to be essentially zero, but not zero so as to protect from adversaries
of Ripple who may try to overload the Ripple ledger by spamming transactions
(Schwartz et al. $2014$). 

\vs

This payment system decreases many of the negative aspects of dealing in
bitcoins and investing in bitcoins. For one thing, volatility is much less
of an issue for both investors and vendors. This is because one is able to
use the Bitcoin Bridge (the integration of the Bitcoin network and Ripple)
to more quickly convert bitcoins into a currency of their preference or to
more quickly liquidate bitcoin holdings. Ten minutes may be a long time
given the price volatility of bitcoin, but a matter of seconds is almost a
laughable amount of risk. The Bitcoin Bridge also helps to reduce the risk
associated with using Bitcoin exchanges. People with Ripple wallets need not
ever directly work inside of payment systems specific to Bitcoin, and their
personal information is safer and transactions, more secure. 

\vs

By our previous discussions we expect those macroeconomic indicators that
are positively related to the general price level of good to be positively
related to the price of bitcoins and those that are negatively related to be
negatively related to the price of bitcoins.

\vs

Thus, we adjust equation ($4$) as follows to account for the attractiveness
to investors and macroeconomic indicators:

\vs

($5$) \begin{center} $p_{t}^{B} = \beta_{0} + \beta_{1}p_t + \beta_{2}y_t +
    \beta_{3}v_t + \beta_{4}b_t + \Sigma \gamma_{i}a_{i_t} + \Sigma
    \alpha_{i}m_{i_t}  + \epsilon_t$ \end{center}

\vs

where each $a_{i_t}$ is an indicator of bitcoin's attractiveness to
investors and each $m_{i_t}$ is a macroeconomic indicator.

\vs 

\textbf{4 Data}

\vs

All data was acquired from \textit{quandl.com}. All data is daily data
ranging from August $5$, $2010$ until December $7$, $2014$. There are
different days missing for each of the variables, so the total number of
observations will depend on the regression. The dependent variable is the
BTC-USD exchange rate, $price\_ave$ in US dollars averaged over all $24$
hours over all Bitcoin markets. Data on the daily bitcoin days destroyed,
$bcdde$ is used as a proxy for the velocity of bitcoins. This is a pretty
good indicator of bitcoin hoarding. This measure is added to after each
transaction during the day. The amount added to the measure for each
transaction on a given day is equal to the sum of the days since each
bitcoin was spent for each bitcoin used in the transaction. Also, as
determinants of the bitcoin economy, the number of bitcoins in circulation,
$totcoins$ is used for the supply of bitcoins and the number of unique
Bitcoin transactions, $trans\_day$, and the number unique Bitcoin accounts,
$accounts\_day$, used in transactions are used as proxies for bitcoin
demand. 

\vs

Additionally, oil prices are a good macroeconomic indicator of the future
price of goods, so the prices of Brent Oil, an international oil company are
used ($brent\_day$). Also, the value of the DOW Jones is used as a price
indicator and an indicator of attractiveness to investors. For the same
reasons, the Euro-USD exchange rate, $usd\_eur$, and the USD-JPY exchange
rate, $usd\_jpy$ are considered for the model.

\vs

Sadly, I could not figure out how to collect data from the Ripple charts API
to find the total number of Ripple accounts over time. This would have
served as a measure for how much Ripple is used. My original hypothesis is
that the actual use of Ripple account, independent of the transactions
performed on said accounts, would influence the price of bitcoin by
affecting the attractiveness of bitcoin to investors and vendors. Another
important variable that would have been good for determining the
attractiveness of bitcoins to investors and vendors would have been data on
the daily Wikipedia hits of Bitcoin, as noted in the literature review.

\vs

\textbf{5 Expectations}

\vs

The expectations of this model specification are hard to determine based on
the lack of data. I estimate, based on the literature, that because of the
inclusion of measures of the supply and demand of bitcoin, macroeconomic
indicators will mostly not be important in determining the price of bitcoin.
I believe that the measures of bitcoin supply and demand play out as
explained in the literature review and conceptual framework. Also, exchange
rates may or may not be significant.

\vs

\textbf{6 Preliminary Analysis}

\vs

Firstly, summary statistics were calculated for all of the initial
variables, and line graphs for all of the data (Appendix A). The descriptive
statistics do not necessarily tell us much; however, the line graphs are
quite useful. Firstly, not that the graphs suggest that we may need to do
a log transformation of the prices for bitcoin. The graphs also give us some
intuition about the stationarity of the time series, as discussed below.

\textbf{6.1 Handling Stationarity}

\vs

In order to specify a VAR model that is not spurious, we must ensure that
the variables of the model are cointegrated; however, performing tests of
stationarity cannot be performed when there are gaps in the data unless
specialized fixes are performed. Gaps in the data are necessary
consequences of how macroeconomic indicators are recorded. Of the variables
with no gaps, $price\_ave$, $totcoins$, $usd\_jpy$, and $usd\_eur$, all are
non-stationary. The augmented Dickey-Fuller tests were applied to the time
series for the tests (Appendix B). Since it is outside of the scope of this
project to attempt to perform specialized tests for non-stationarity, I
will have to use all of the information that I have. First, we checked to
see if each of $price\_ave$, $totcoins$, $usd\_jpy$, and $usd\_eur$ are
$I$($1$) by performing another Augmented Dickey-Fuller test on the
differenced variables (Appendix B). Indeed, there is evidence that every
variable is stationary. In fact, even at $\alpha = .01$ all models are
stationary all the way up to lag $23$ except for $dif\_totcoins$, which is
stationary up to $17$ lags but still stationary up to $23$ lags at
$\alpha=.05$.

\vs

The Bitcoin algorithm for adjusting the computational difficulty of
algorithms results in a constant increase of Bitcoins, as can been seen by
the line graph of $totcoins$ (Appendix A). Because of this, the variance
may be fairly constant, but the average is not. Thus, we find it likely
that $totcoins$ is of order of integration one, but we may specify some
models in which this is not an assumption. Looking at the line graph for
daily bitcoin days destroyed during the period in which we are using the
data, the variance appears to be relatively constant, especially when
excluding massive drops in bitcoin prices and seasonal events like
Christmas, Cyber-Monday, and Black Friday. Due to the relatively large
number of data points, I believe even without adjustment this will result
in the data being stationary. This is consistent with findings of the
velocity of money that suggest a borderline relationship in some tests and
stationarity indeed in others (Aslan and Korap $2007$; and Brand et al.
$2002$). Thus, I believe it to be probable that $bcdde$ is stationary.
Based on the line graphs, $address\_day$ and $trans\_day$ seem to be of
order integration of $I$($1$), especially as of late. This is consistent
with the literature review.

\vs

A recent study by Bacon and Kojima ($2008$) suggests that both oil prices
and the log transformation of oil prices are non-stationary with order
$I$($1$). This suggests that both $brent\_day$ and $ln\_brent\_day$ will be
non-stationary with $I$($1$). Mr. David Alan Dickey himself points out how
obvious it is that the log transformation of the Dow Jones Index is
non-stationary of order one (Dickey, David $2005$) and tests these
hypothesizes. I am unsure about what the literature has to say about the
stationarity of the Dow Jones Index itself. The Dow Jones looks very
clearly like a non-stationary variable with $I$($1$) based on the line
graph, i.e. if one draws a fairly straight, positively sloped line through
the data in the right location, then you can see that the variance of
differences seems to be fairly constant and that the differences are
centered about some mean. Thus, we also assume that $ln_dj_day$ and
$dj_day$ are of order $I$($1$). 

\vs

The stationarity of those log transformed variables for which it was is
possible to perform an Augmented Dickey-Fuller test without transformations
was tested (Appendix B). Indeed, each of the log transformations of
$totcoins$, $usd\_eur$, $usd\_jpy$, and $price\_ave$ are $I$($1$). I am
done with the analysis of stationarity. I will base base modeling off of
the available information, which includes information from the
Dickey-Fuller and the literature about what lags may be important.

\vs

\textbf{6.2 Preliminary Regressions}

\vs

The first two regressions run for price estimation are in Appendix C.
Initially, I attempted to keep in all cointegrated variables and then add
in lags that I thought were important. My initial model failed in every
respect: there was multicolinearity, autocorrelation, heteroskedasticity,
and most importantly, misspecification. The mulicolinarity was clear,
although not tested for; autocorrelation was indicated by failing the
Augmented Durbin Watson test, which is valid for models that have lags of
the dependent variable as independent variables; heteroskedasticity is
indicated by rejecting the null in the Breusch-Pagen test; and both the
failed Durbin Watson test and the failed Ramsey RESET test indicate
misspecifcation of the model. The price of bitcoin is clearly not linear,
as previously discussed. The autocorrelation and homoskedasticity are also
clear in Figures $30$ and $31$. The model does past the F test, but of all
the variables only the first and second day lags of bitcion price and the
$address_day$ were found to be signficant. 

\vs

In a vain attempt to make the model better, I decided to take out variables
that were causing multicolinearity and that were not that predictive
(Appendix C). The lag of exchange rates make much more sense, and the
number of unique bitcoin addresses from which purchases were made on any
given day has, without a doubt, a very high correlation to the number of
unique bitcoin transactions performed on a day. Thus, I decided to keep the
better proxy, the number of unique bitcoin transactions on a given day. I
believe the number of transactions would be a better proxy unless there
were people spamming the network with very low payments, which would be
financially costly in the Ripple system but especially so in mainstream
Bitcoin exchanges. One can see from Figure $31$ that the model is in no
better shape than its predecessor. The very low p-values for the Durbin
Watson tests suggest the regression is spurious.

\vs

I followed up these regressions by modeling the logarithmic price of
 bitcoin (Appendix D). 

\vs

\textbf{7 Results of “Best” Models}

\vs

The model found in figure $24$ seems to have been the best model I could
come up with. The model passes specification testing via the Ramsey RESET
test, just barely checks in as having homoskedasticity by the Breusch-Pagen
test, and has such a high probability for the Durbin Watson that it does
not appear to be spurious or have autocorrelation. This should be weighed
carefully because the Breusch-Pagen test only tests for linear
heteroskedasticity. Interestingly, lagged exchange rates are now
considereed important for determining bitcoin prices. The meaning of the
signs on these coeifficents is up for debate though. 

\vs

If one removes the log of total bitcoins from the regression because of its
insignifance in determining prices, they will find that the probability of
there being heteroskedasticity increases to the ponit of being signficant at
$\alpha=.05$ (Figure $38$). Also, one should note the extremely high
correlation between the one day lag and the two day lag in bitcoin prices.
Removing one of these lags results in failing of the Durbin Watson test.   

\vs

\textbf{8 Summary and Implications}

\vs

An interesting result here is that the model goes from being a seeming
pretty good model in terms of explaining having autocorrelation when the
second llag of bitocoin prices is removed. I think this is because it takes
away this sort of idea that bitcoin investors and potential bitcoin
investors are not only thinking about what happened when it comes to the
immediate but also to slightly before that when trying to determine what
will happen to the price of bitcoin. This is because the price volatility
of bitcoin is phenomenal. Furthermore, these regressions have very large
$R^2$ values, and it should be determined whether or not their residuals
are stationary so as to reduce the possibility that these regressions are
spurious. Similiar to the literature, we found that the demand for bitcoins
was more important for determining bitcion prices. Indeed, we found that
the supply of bitcoins was not an important determinant. All results should
be taken lightly because of the possibility of many omitted variables that
could have biased the results.

\vs

\textbf{9 Future Work}

\vs

Future work on this project will involve a more indepth study of solving
endogeniety problems. I could try performing more complex error correction
models within the VAR framework, or more interestingly, work with
simultaneous equations. Either way, I would still like to take another look
at this problem when I have collected data from Ripple and gotten data on
the price volitility of bitcoin. I would also like to learn how to test for
stationarity when there is gaps in the data. In addition to this, one thing
I am particularly interested in is using machine learning for prediction. 

\newpage

\begin{center}

\textbf{References}

\end{center}

\vspace{5mm}

Aslan, O. and Korap, L. ($2007$). Testing Theory of Money for the Turkish
Economy. \textit{BDDK}
$https://www.bddk.org.tr/WebSitesi/turkce/Raporlar/BDDK_Dergi/4212Makale-5.pdf$

\vs

Bacon, R. and Kojima, M. ($2008$). “Coping with Oil Price Volatility”.
\textit{ESMAP} $05$/$008$
$http://www.esmap.org/sites/esmap.org/files/8142008101202_coping_oil_price.pdf$ 

\vs

Barber, B.M. and T. Odean ($2008$). All That Glitters: The Effect of
Attention and News on the Buying Behavior of Individual and Institutional
Investors.
\textit{Review of Financial Studies}

$21$($2$): $785-818$. 

\vs

Brand, C., Gerdesmeier, and D., Roffia ($2002$). “Estimating the Trend of
M3 Income Velocity Underlying the Reference Value for Monetary Growth.”
\textit{European Central Bank} $3$ $1-61$
https://www.ecb.europa.eu/pub/pdf/scpops/ecbocp3.pdf

\vs

Buchholz, M., Delaney, J., Warren, J. and Parker, J. ($2012$). “Bits and
Bets, Information, Price Volatility, and Demand for Bitcoin.”
\textit{Economics} $312$,
$http://www.bitcointrading.com/pdf/bitsandbets.pdf$

\vs

David, D. ($2005$). “Stationary Issues in Time Series Modeling”.
\textit{Sugi} $30$: $192-30$.
$http://www2.sas.com/proceedings/sugi30/192-30.pdf$

\vs

Dimitrova, D. ($2005$). The Relationship between Exchange Rates and Stock
Prices; Studied in a Multivariate Model.” \textit{Issues in Political
Economy} $14$: $1-25$.

\vs

Gervais, Simon, Ron Kaniel, and Dan H. Mingelgrin. ($2001$). The
high-volume return

premium. \textit{Journal of Finance} $56$: $877–919$. 

\vs


Grullon, G., Kanatas, G. and Weston, J.P. ($2004$). Advertising, breadth of
ownership, and liquidity.\textit{Review of Financial Studies} 17: 439–61.

\vs

Kristoufek, L. ($2013$). “BitCoin meets Google Trends and Wikipedia:
Quantifying the relationship between phenomena of the Internet era.”
\textit{Scientific Reports} $3$ ($3415$): $1-7$.

\vs

Nakamoto, S. ($2008$). Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System.
\textit{The Cryptography Mailing List}, $1-9$.

\vs

MacDonell, Alec ($2014$). “Popping the Bitcoin Bubble: An application of
log-periodic power law modeling to digital currency to digital currency.”
\textit{University of Notre Dame}
$http://economics.nd.edu/assets/134206/mac_donell_popping_the_biticoin_bubble_an_application_of_log_periodic_power_law_modeling_to_digital_currency.pdf$

\vs

Moore, T. and N. Christin ($2013$). “Beware the Middleman: Empirical
Analysis of BitCoin-Exchange Risk.” \textit{Financial Cryptography and Data
Security} $7859$: $25-33$.

\vs

Schwartz, D., Youngs, N., and Britto, A. ($2014$), The Ripple Protocol
Concensus Algorithm. \textit{Ripple Labs Inc.}
$https://ripple.com/files/ripple_consensus_whitepaper.pdf$

\newpage

\textbf{Appendix A: Preliminary Analysis}

\vspace{5mm}

\begin{center}

\begin{figure}

\end{figure}

\end{center}\begin{figure}[ht!]

\centering

\includegraphics[width=150mm]{summary.png}

\caption{Summary Statistics}

\label{overflow}

\end{figure}

\vs

\begin{figure}[ht!]

\centering

\includegraphics[width=150mm]{ave_price.png}

\caption{Bitcoin value in US Dollars}

\label{overflow}

\end{figure}

\vs

\begin{figure}[ht!]

\centering

\includegraphics[width=150mm]{brent_oil.png}

\caption{Brent Oil Prices in US Dollars}

\label{overflow}

\end{figure}

\vs

\begin{figure}[ht!]

\centering

\includegraphics[width=150mm]{dj_days.png}

\caption{DOW Jones Index US Dollars}

\label{overflow}

\end{figure}

\vs

\begin{figure}[ht!]

\centering

\includegraphics[width=150mm]{trans_day.png}

\caption{Number of Unique Bitcoin Transactions per Day}

\label{overflow}

\end{figure}

\vs

\begin{figure}[ht!]

\centering

\includegraphics[width=150mm]{address_day.png}

\caption{Number of Unique Bitcoin Addresses Involved In Transactions per Day}

\label{overflow}

\end{figure}

\vs

\begin{figure}[ht!]

\centering

\includegraphics[width=150mm]{tot_btc.png}

\caption{Total Bitcoins}

\label{overflow}

\end{figure}

\vs

\begin{figure}[ht!]

\centering

\includegraphics[width=150mm]{USD_EUR.png}

\caption{USD-EUR Exchange Rate in US Dollars}

\label{overflow}

\end{figure}

\vs

\begin{figure}[ht!]

\centering

\includegraphics[width=150mm]{USD_JPY.png}

\caption{USD-JPY Exchange Rate in Japanese Yen}

\label{overflow}

\end{figure}

\clearpage

\textbf{Appendix B: Stationarity}

\vspace{5mm}

\begin{figure}[ht!]

\centering

\includegraphics[width=150mm]{df_totcoins.pnon}

\label{overflow}

\end{figure}

\vspace{3mm}

\begin{figure}[ht!]

\centering

\includegraphics[width=125mm]{reg4_vif.png}

\caption{Decreased Multicolinarity}

\label{overflow}

\end{figure}

\vspace{3mm}

\begin{figure}[ht!]

\centering

\includegraphics[width=125mm]{reg5.png}

\caption{Last Good Model}

\label{overflow}

\end{figure}

\clearpage

\newpage

\begin{figure}[ht!]

\centering

\includegraphics[width=110mm]{reg5_vif.png}

\caption{Multicolinearity of Model}

\label{overflow}

\end{figure}

\end{document}
